In this section will get a first look at object oriented or o programming.
We've already done a bit of a slow programming when we use the standard string and vector classes but
now we'll learn much more about our programming and especially how to create our own classes and objects.
Before learning about C++ is object oriented features we learn what our programming is and why it's
so popular and useful.
We'll learn exactly what classes in objects are and how they work in the world of o.o.
We'll see how to declare some simple classes and create objects from those classes.
Well then see how we can use the dot operator and the pointer operators so that we can get to the parts
of an object that we want to access.
Two of the main strengths of object orientation are encapsulation and information hiding.
We'll define these concepts in this section and see how C++ is public and private access modifiers allow
us to prevent access to parts of our code while still allowing access to the interface that will be
used by other programmers.
Then we'll turn our attention to the many ways that we can construct or initialize or objects.
This is all done with constructors.
These are methods that we write that give us control over exactly how our objects are created.
There are lots of variations of constructors and we'll look at the most common and understand their
primary purpose.
We'll learn about initialiser list default overloaded copy and move constructors and we'll see when
and how to implement them.
Sometimes when we work with pointers inside classes we have to be aware of whether the pointer or what
the pointer is pointing to is being copied.
This concept is called shallow versus deep copying by default.
C++ provides shallow copying but sometimes we need to do more than that and we'll learn how and why.
We'll also discuss destructors.
Sometimes when an object is destroyed there can be things that we have to do to tidy up after them.
This might include closing files freeing allocated memory writing log messages to files and so forth
C++ provides destructors that are called automatically when objects are going to be destroyed.
Then we'll learn about the this pointer which many times confuses beginning C++ programmers.
But don't worry it's pretty simple once explained sometimes when we write programs we want certain attributes
to belong to the entire class and not to the objects themselves.
That's exactly what the static class members allow you to do.
Finally will wrap up this section by understanding the difference between structures and classes and
see how C++ classes can grant friendship privileges to other parts of the program so they can access
private information in an easy but controlled manner.
Once you complete this section you'll have the basic fundamentals necessary to model your programs using
real world objects.
This will not only help you think more abstractly it will also make your code more robust easier to
debug and easier for others to modify.
This sounds like a lot to learn but will take it in small steps and build up our classes as we go.
Let's get started with old programming and C++.